W-13925526-export-project-jar-duke (#130)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/package-mule-application.adoc

> = Export Mule Applications

Reviewer: Should this be "Export a Mule Application" since you used that as the text in nav.doc?

> = Export Mule Applications

Author: ```suggestion
= Export a Mule Application
```

> = Export Mule Applications

Author: ```suggestion
= Export a Mule Application
```

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"]

//LOGO (web, desktop, or both)
include::partial$acb-ide-logos.adoc[tags="both-ides"]

> Package Mule application resources in a sharable or deployable JAR file. A Mule application is an integration or implementation application that runs on Mule runtime engine.

Author: ```suggestion
Package a snapshot of Mule application resources in a sharable or deployable JAR file. A Mule application is an integration or implementation application that runs on Mule runtime engine.
```

> Package a snapshot of Mule application resources in a sharable or deployable JAR file. A Mule application is an integration or implementation application that runs on Mule runtime engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Package a snapshot of Mule application resources in a shareable or deployable JAR file. A Mule application is an integration or implementation application that runs on Mule runtime engine.
```

> * A <<sharable, sharable JAR file>> is lightweight, packaging only the source code of the application. Source code includes configuration files but not libraries or other dependencies required for your application to run and deploy successfully. You or your teammates can import the JAR file into Anypoint Studio (Studio) or an Anypoint Code Builder instance. The IDEs generate the dependencies automatically based on the settings in the POM file (`pom.xml`). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A <<sharable, shareable JAR file>> is lightweight, packaging only the source code of the application. The source code includes configuration files but not the libraries or other dependencies that the application needs to run and deploy successfully. You can import the JAR file into Anypoint Studio (Studio) or an Anypoint Code Builder instance. The IDEs generate the dependencies automatically based on the settings in the POM file (`pom.xml`). 
```

* A <<deployable, deployable JAR file>> contains the compiled code and all dependencies. Deploy the JAR file to any supported environment, such as CloudHub or on-premises. 

[[sharable]]

> == Export to a Sharable JAR File

Reviewer: Global - sharable > shareable
The one with the "e" is more common.

> == Export to a Sharable JAR File

Author: ```suggestion
== Export to a Shareable JAR File
```

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application` to generate a  sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`.
```

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`.

Reviewer 2: MuleSoft: Export Mule Application **_Sources_**
Also, this command generates the same file as the sequence but also provides a UI the user can interact with to retrieve the file. This is more important in the CloudIDE because file isn't visible in the CloudIDE and the UI helps the user download the file to their local machine.

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application Sources` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources` but adds an interactive UI for opening or downloading the JAR file.
```

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application Sources` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources` but adds an interactive UI for opening or downloading the JAR file.

Author: added " but adds an interactive UI for opening or downloading the JAR file."
@mlinsf

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application Sources` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources` but adds an interactive UI for opening or downloading the JAR file.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application Sources` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources` but adds an interactive UI for opening or downloading the JAR file.
```

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application Sources` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`.

Author: @mlinsf added "This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise..."

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application Sources` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application Sources` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you can import and continue to develop in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file, but it otherwise works in the same way as the command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`.
```

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application Sources` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources` but adds an interactive UI for opening or downloading the JAR file.

Author: @mlinsf added "This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise..."

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application Sources` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources` but adds an interactive UI for opening or downloading the JAR file.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Mule Application Sources` to generate a sharable, lightweight JAR file that you or your teammates can import and continue developing in Anypoint Studio or Anypoint Code Builder. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`.
```

Source files include:

** The configuration XML and other files in the `src` folder, including resource files
** `mule-artifact.json`
** `pom.xml`

To generate a sharable JAR file:

. Open a configuration XML in a project for a Mule application that you intend to export.
. Open the Command Palette by pressing Ctrl+Shift+p (Windows) or Cmd+Shift+p (Mac), and provide the following command:
+
[source,command]
----

> MuleSoft: Export Mule Application

Reviewer 2: Application _Sources_

> MuleSoft: Export Mule Application

Author: ```suggestion
MuleSoft: Export Mule Application Sources
```

----
+
The terminal window in the IDE opens automatically to provide the status of the packaging process, which includes execution of the export command, a scan for the project to export, and the packaging of the project snapshot into a JAR file.
+
The file name for the JAR file follows the pattern `_application_name_-_version_-SNAPSHOT-_shareable_-mule-application.jar`, for example, `my-app-example-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-shareable-mule-application.jar`.
. Find or download the JAR file by following the prompts that appear in the IDE after the packaging process completes successfully:

> * In the desktop IDE, click *Open* to open you Explorer (Windows) or Finder (Mac) window to the directory that contains the JAR file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the desktop IDE, click *Open* to open your Explorer (Windows) or Finder (Mac) window to the directory that contains the JAR file.
```

* In the cloud IDE, click *Download* to download the JAR file to a directory on your local machine.

** For a JAR file that is 32 MB or smaller, the IDE automatically downloads the file to your Downloads folder. 

> ** For a JAR file that is larger than 32 MB, the IDE disallows downloads to built-in folders that contain system files, such as Downloads, Desktop, or Documents folders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For a JAR file that is larger than 32 MB, the IDE disallows downloads to built-in folders that contain system files, such as the Downloads, Desktop, or Documents folder.
```

Reviewer: There is usually only one of these folders, so the reference to them should be singular.

> Notice that the terminal window in the IDE also provides the path to the JAR, in the `/targets` directory under your project folder. In the IDE, you can find the JAR file in the Explorer, under *JAVA PROJECTS*.

Reviewer 2: I'm pretty sure that the /targets folder is hidden in the VS Code explorer by default (at least for projects that were created on ACB). They can still navigate to the folder using Explorer or Finder

Author: You can see it under JAVA PROJECTS. Sent @mlinsf a screenshot.

> Notice that the terminal window in the IDE also provides the path to the JAR, in the `/targets` directory under your project folder. In the IDE, you can find the JAR file in the Explorer, under *JAVA PROJECTS*.

Reviewer: "in the Explorer" - do you mean "in the Explorer folder"?

> Notice that the terminal window in the IDE also provides the path to the JAR, in the `/targets` directory under your project folder. In the IDE, you can find the JAR file in the Explorer, under *JAVA PROJECTS*.

Author: We call it the Explorer.  ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

> Notice that the terminal window in the IDE also provides the path to the JAR, in the `/targets` directory under your project folder. In the IDE, you can find the JAR file in the Explorer, under *JAVA PROJECTS*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The terminal window in the IDE also provides the path to the JAR, in the `/targets` directory under your project folder. In the IDE, you can find the JAR file in the Explorer, under *JAVA PROJECTS*.
```

Reviewer: "in the Explorer" - do you mean "in the Explorer folder"?

> The terminal window in the IDE also provides the path to the JAR, in the `/targets` directory under your project folder. In the IDE, you can find the JAR file in the Explorer, under *JAVA PROJECTS*.

Reviewer: in the Explorer > in the Explorer folder / in Explorer

To open a sharable JAR file in a project workspace within Anypoint Code Builder, see xref:upload-a-project.adoc[]. To import to Anypoint Studio, see xref::studio::import-export-packages.adoc[].

[[deployable]]
== Export to a Deployable JAR File

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Project to Mule Deployable Jar` to generate a deployable JAR file. This command works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`, which packages the compiled code and all dependencies into a distributable JAR.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Project to Mule Deployable Jar` to generate a deployable JAR file. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`, which packages the compiled code and all dependencies into a distributable JAR. 
```

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Project to Mule Deployable Jar` to generate a deployable JAR file. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package`, which packages the compiled code and all dependencies into a distributable JAR. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Project to Mule Deployable Jar` to generate a deployable JAR file. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file, but it otherwise works the same way as the command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package`, which packages the compiled code and all dependencies into a distributable JAR. 
```

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Project to Mule Deployable Jar` to generate a deployable JAR file. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`, which packages the compiled code and all dependencies into a distributable JAR. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Project to Mule Deployable Jar` to generate a deployable JAR file. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package`, which packages the compiled code and all dependencies into a distributable JAR. 
```

> Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Project to Mule Deployable Jar` to generate a deployable JAR file. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package Only Sources`, which packages the compiled code and all dependencies into a distributable JAR. 

Author: @mlinsf added "This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise..."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the command `MuleSoft: Export Project to Mule Deployable Jar` to generate a deployable JAR file. This command provides an interactive UI for finding or downloading the JAR file but otherwise works the same way as command sequence `Task: Run Task` > `mule` > `mule: Package`, which packages the compiled code and all dependencies into a distributable JAR. 
```

> Deployment procedures vary by Mule runtime host and deployment mechanism. For example, you can deploy to CloudHub through the Runtime Manager UI or REST API. See xref:hosting-home::index.adoc#runtime-plane-hosting-options.adoc[Runtime Plane Hosting Options] and xref:mule-runtime::deploying.adoc[Deploy Mule Applications] for more information. 

Reviewer: Flip the last sentence - "For more information, see..."
It's better for users to know immediately whether they should bother looking at the links (seems like splitting hair, but this adds up).

> Deployment procedures vary by Mule runtime host and deployment mechanism. For example, you can deploy to CloudHub through the Runtime Manager UI or REST API. See xref:hosting-home::index.adoc#runtime-plane-hosting-options.adoc[Runtime Plane Hosting Options] and xref:mule-runtime::deploying.adoc[Deploy Mule Applications] for more information. 

Author: ```suggestion
Deployment procedures vary by Mule runtime host and deployment mechanism. For example, you can deploy to CloudHub through the Runtime Manager UI or REST API. For more information, see xref:hosting-home::index.adoc#runtime-plane-hosting-options.adoc[Runtime Plane Hosting Options] and xref:mule-runtime::deploying.adoc[Deploy Mule Applications]. 
```

To generate a deployable JAR file:

. Open a configuration XML in a project for a Mule application that you intend to export.
. Open the Command Palette by pressing Ctrl+Shift+p (Windows) or Cmd+Shift+p (Mac), and provide the following command:
+
[source,command]
----
MuleSoft: Export Project to Mule Deployable Jar
----
+

> The terminal window in the IDE opens automatically to provide the status of the packaging process, which includes execution of the export command, a scan for the project to export, and the packaging of the project snapshot into a JAR file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The terminal window in the IDE opens automatically to provide the status of the packaging process, which includes the execution of the export command, a scan for the project to export, and the packaging of the project snapshot into a JAR file.
```

+
The file name for the JAR file follows the pattern `_application_name_-_version_-SNAPSHOT-mule-application.jar`, for example: `my-app-example-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-mule-application.jar`.
. Find or download the JAR file by following the prompts that appear in the IDE after the packaging process completes successfully:

> * In the desktop IDE, click *Open* to open you Explorer (Windows) or Finder (Mac) window to the directory that contains the JAR file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the desktop IDE, click *Open* to open your Explorer (Windows) or Finder (Mac) window to the directory that contains the JAR file.
```

* In the cloud IDE, click *Download* to download the JAR file to a directory on your local machine.

** For a JAR file that is 32 MB or smaller, the IDE automatically downloads the file to your Downloads folder. 

> ** For a JAR file that is larger than 32 MB, the IDE disallows downloads to built-in folders that contain system files, such as Downloads, Desktop, or Documents folders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For a JAR file that is larger than 32 MB, the IDE disallows downloads to built-in folders that contain system files, such as the Downloads, Desktop, or Documents folder.
```

> Notice that the terminal window in the IDE also provides the path to the JAR, in the `/targets` directory under your project folder. In the IDE, you can find the JAR file in the Explorer, under *JAVA PROJECTS*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The terminal window in the IDE also provides the path to the JAR, in the `/targets` directory under your project folder. In the IDE, you can find the JAR file in the Explorer, under *JAVA PROJECTS*.
```

> 

Reviewer: In the Explorer folder?

Author: same comment as above

Author: We call it the Explorer everywhere. I'm going to choose consistency for now. We can assess a global change later.
